[DOCS] Add ILM tutorial (#59502)
elastic/kibana: docs/management/index-lifecycle-policies/example-index-lifecycle-policy.asciidoc

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* A server with Filebeat installed and configured to send logs to the `elasticsearch`
output as described in https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/filebeat-getting-started.html[Getting Started with Filebeat]

[float]
==== View the filebeat ILM policy

Filebeat includes a default ILM policy which enables rollover. Index lifecycle
management is enabled automatically if you’re using the default `filebeat.yml`
and index template.

To view the default policy in {kib}, go to *Management > Index Lifecycle Policies*,
search for _filebeat_, and choose the _filebeat-version_ policy.

This policy initiates the rollover action when the index size reaches 50G or 30
days old.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/tutorial-ilm-hotphaserollover-default.png["Default policy"]

[float]
==== Modify the policy

The default policy is enough to prevent the creation of many tiny daily indices.
You can modify the policy to meet more complex requirements.

* Activate the warm phase.

+
You have a choice to make, you can’t meet the requirements exactly with rollover
enabled in the hot phase.

> ** Enable *move to warm phase on rollover*. The index may move to the warm phase

Reviewer: move > Move
may > might

> more quickly than intended if it reaches the *Maximum index size* condition before

Reviewer: remove the word "condition"

*Maximum age*.

> ** Provide a value for *Timing for warm phase*. Setting this to *15* will keep the

Reviewer: I'd put this first because it is the default.

indices on hot nodes for a range of  15-45 days, depending on when the initial
rollover occurred.

> * *Select a node attribute to control shard allocation*. For this example,

Reviewer: In **Select a node attribute to control shard allocation**, set data:warm(2) to migrate shards to warm data nodes.

choose `data:warm(2)` to migrate shards to warm data nodes.

*  Change *Number of replicas* to *1*.
+
NOTE:  When rollover is enabled in the hot phase, action timing in the other phases
is based on the rollover date.

+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/tutorial-ilm-modify-default-warm-phase-rollover.png["Modify to add warm phase"]

> * Activate the delete phase.

Reviewer: Make this one step.  

Activate the delete phase and set the **Timing** to **60** days.

** Specify the *Timing for delete phase* as *60* days.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/tutorial-ilm-delete-rollover.png["Add a delete phase"]

[float]
==== Create a custom policy

If meeting a specific retention time period is your most important priority, you
can create a custom policy.  For this option, you will use Filebeat daily indices
without rollover.

<placeholder for filebeat settings if needed>

To create a custom policy in {kib}, go to *Management > Index Lifecycle Policies > Create Policy*.

> * *Warm phase*

Reviewer: Combine.  

1. Activate the warm phase and configure it as follows.

+
Activate the warm phase and configure the policy.
+
|===
|*Setting* |*Value*

|Timing for warm phase
|30 days from index creation

|Node attribute
|`data:warm`

|Number of replicas
|1

|Force merge data
|enable

|Number of segments
|1
|===

+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/tutorial-ilm-custom-policy.png["Modify the custom policy to add a warm phase"]

* *Delete phase*
+

> Activate the delete phase and set the timing.

Reviewer: 2. Activate the delete phase and set the timing.

[role="xpack"]

[[example-using-index-lifecycle-policy]]

> === Tutorial:  Use ILM to manage Filebeat time-based indices

Reviewer 2: We maintain a list of attributes here: https://github.com/elastic/docs/blob/master/shared/attributes.asciidoc

Try to use those when possible. They ensure we can make docs-wide term changes easily.
```suggestion
=== Tutorial:  Use {ilm-cap} to manage {filebeat} time-based indices
```

> With index lifecycle management (ILM), you can create policies to define actions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With {ilm} ({ilm-cap}), you can create policies to define actions
```

Author: I'm replacing an existing page, so I was leaving the old anchor in case it was referenced elsewhere. Do you still suggest to change it?

that are automatically performed against indices as they age.  In this tutorial,

> you will use {kib}’s *Index Lifecycle Policies* to modify and create ILM policies.

Reviewer 2: > With index lifecycle management (ILM), you can create policies to define actions that are automatically performed against indices as they age.

This implies that ILM only works based on age, but we can also take actions based on index size or number of docs. More importantly, this doesn't really address the _why_ of ILM. It helps you automatically manage your indices for performance and retention. You may want to consider reusing a sentence from https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/master/overview-index-lifecycle-management.html.

> In this tutorial, you will use Kibana’s Index Lifecycle Policies to modify and create ILM policies.

Nit: I'd reword to avoid future tense if possible. Something like:

```
This tutorial shows you how to use use {kib}'s *Index Lifecycle Policies* to
create and change {ilm-cap} policies.
```

The bolded **Index Lifecycle Policies** seemed unnecessary to me, but maybe that's just a Kibana docs style.

Reviewer: Yep, it's a Kibana docs style.

> [float]
> ==== Scenario

Reviewer 2: We should use `[discrete]` instead of `[float]` when possible. I'd also add an explicit anchor here.

```suggestion
[discrete]
[[example-using-index-lifecycle-policy-scenario]]
==== Scenario
```

> You’ve been tasked with sending syslog files to an {es} cluster. This
> project has the following data retention guidelines for log data:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You’re tasked with sending syslog files to an {es} cluster. This
log data has the following data retention guidelines:
```

> * Keep logs on hot data nodes for 30 days

Reviewer 2: This is the first mention of hot-warm architecture. 

If readers should be familiar with those concepts, maybe add a link to a conceptual doc in the prerequisites?

> * Rollover to a new index if the size reaches 50GB

Reviewer 2: "Roll over" should be two words when used as a verb. One word as a noun.
```suggestion
* Roll over the index containing log data to a new index when it reaches 50GB
```

* After 30 days:
** Move the logs to warm data nodes

> ** Set replicas to 1

Reviewer 2: > ** Set replicas to 1

I think we need more explanation/context here.

> ** Force merge indices to a single segment

Reviewer 2: > ** Set replicas to 1
** Force merge indices to a single segment

I think these two items need more context/explanation. I imagine many users may not be familiar with the concept of replicas, force merges, or segments. At the least, provide a link.

* Delete logs after 90 days

> [float]
> ==== Prerequisites

Reviewer 2: Add an explicit anchor here.
```suggestion
[discrete]
[[example-using-index-lifecycle-policy-prerequisites]]
==== Prerequisites
```

To complete this tutorial, you'll need:

* An {es} cluster with hot and warm nodes configured for shard allocation

> awareness. If you’re using https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud/current/ec-getting-started-templates-hot-warm.html[Elasticsearch Service],

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
awareness. If you’re using {cloud}/ec-getting-started-templates-hot-warm.html[Elasticsearch Service],
```

Reviewer 3: I did some more checking into how this works, and I think we should say [`Index-level shard allocation filtering`](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/shard-allocation-filtering.html) instead of shard allocation awareness.  The Index-level page mentions ILM.

> * An {es} cluster with hot and warm nodes configured for shard allocation
> awareness. If you’re using https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud/current/ec-getting-started-templates-hot-warm.html[Elasticsearch Service],

Reviewer 3: I did some more checking and index level allocation appears to be what is used, it is related to shard allocation awareness. https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/shard-allocation-filtering.html

  The Index-level page mentions ILM.
```suggestion
* An {es} cluster with hot and warm nodes configured for index-level shard allocation
filtering. If you’re using https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud/current/ec-getting-started-templates-hot-warm.html[Elasticsearch Service],
```

Author: Updated to add shard allocation filtering.

choose the hot-warm architecture deployment template.

+

> For a self-managed cluster, use https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/allocation-awareness.html[shard allocation awareness]

Reviewer 2: Attributes are especially helpful when linking across books. Generally, avoid using any `/current/` links as they change with each release. They're prone to breaking if a book removes or rearranges its pages.
```suggestion
For a self-managed cluster, use {ref}/allocation-awareness.html[shard allocation awareness]
```

Reviewer 3: This one should point to https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/shard-allocation-filtering.html  @jrodewig would that be `{ref}/shard-allocation-filtering.html[index-level shard allocation filtering]` even though the page is in Elasticsearch docs and not Kibana?

to label data nodes as hot or warm. This step is required to migrate shards between
nodes using shard allocation awareness.
+
For example, you can set this in `elasticsearch.yml` for each data node:
+
[source,yaml]
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
node.attr.data: "warm"
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> * A server with Filebeat installed and configured to send logs to the `elasticsearch`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A server with {filebeat} installed and configured to send logs to the `elasticsearch`
```

> output as described in https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/filebeat-getting-started.html[Getting Started with Filebeat].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
output as described in {filebeat-ref}/filebeat-getting-started.html[Getting Started with Filebeat].
```

> [float]
> ==== View the Filebeat ILM policy

Reviewer 2: Explicit anchor
```suggestion
[discrete]
[[example-using-index-lifecycle-policy-view-fb-ilm-policy]]
==== View the {filebeat} {ilm-init} policy
```

> Filebeat includes a default ILM policy that enables rollover. Index lifecycle
> management is enabled automatically if you’re using the default `filebeat.yml`
> and index template.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{filebeat} includes a default {ilm-init} policy that enables rollover. {ilm-cap}
is enabled automatically if you’re using the default `filebeat.yml`
and index template.
```

To view the default policy in {kib}, go to *Management > Index Lifecycle Policies*,
search for _filebeat_, and choose the _filebeat-version_ policy.

> This policy initiates the rollover action when the index size reaches 50G or 30
> days old.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This policy initiates the rollover action when the index size reaches 50GB or 
the index becomes 30 days old.
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/tutorial-ilm-hotphaserollover-default.png["Default policy"]

[float]
==== Modify the policy

The default policy is enough to prevent the creation of many tiny daily indices.
You can modify the policy to meet more complex requirements.

. Activate the warm phase.

+
. Set either of the following options to control when the index moves to the warm phase:

> ** Provide a value for *Timing for warm phase*. Setting this to *15* will keep the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Provide a value for *Timing for warm phase*. Setting this to *15* keeps the
```

indices on hot nodes for a range of  15-45 days, depending on when the initial
rollover occurred.

** Enable *Move to warm phase on rollover*. The index might move to the warm phase
more quickly than intended if it reaches the *Maximum index size* before

> *Maximum age*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the *Maximum age*.
```

> . In *Select a node attribute to control shard allocation*, select *data:warm(2)* in
> the dropdown to migrate shards to warm data nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the *Select a node attribute to control shard allocation* dropdown, select *data:warm(2)* to
migrate shards to warm data nodes.
```

. Change *Number of replicas* to *1*.

. Enable *Force merge data* and set *Number of segments* to *1*.
+
NOTE:  When rollover is enabled in the hot phase, action timing in the other phases
is based on the rollover date.

+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/tutorial-ilm-modify-default-warm-phase-rollover.png["Modify to add warm phase"]

. Activate the delete phase and set *Timing for delete phase* to *90* days.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/tutorial-ilm-delete-rollover.png["Add a delete phase"]

[float]
==== Create a custom policy

> If meeting a specific retention time period is your most important priority, you
> can create a custom policy.  For this option, you will use Filebeat daily indices
> without rollover.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If meeting a specific retention time period important, you
can create a custom policy. For this option, you will use {filebeat} daily indices
without rollover.
```

To create a custom policy in {kib}, go to *Management > Index Lifecycle Policies >
Create Policy*.

. Activate the warm phase and configure it as follows:
+
|===
|*Setting* |*Value*

|Timing for warm phase
|30 days from index creation

|Node attribute
|`data:warm`

|Number of replicas
|1

|Force merge data
|enable

|Number of segments
|1
|===

+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/tutorial-ilm-custom-policy.png["Modify the custom policy to add a warm phase"]

+
. Activate the delete phase and set the timing.
+
|===
|*Setting* |*Value*
|Timing for delete phase
|90
|===

+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/tutorial-ilm-delete-phase-creation.png["Delete phase"]

> . Configure the index to use the new policy in *{kib} > Management > Index Lifecycle

Reviewer: This is hard to parse.  Can you make it a series of substeps?
3. Configure the index to use the new policy.
    a. In Index Lifecycle Policies, select your policy.
    b....
    c....

Policies > _Select your custom policy_ > Actions > Add policy to template > Select

> your Filebeat index template*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
your Filebeat index template*.
```

+

> NOTE: If you initially used the default Filebeat ILM policy, you will see a notice that the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: If you initially used the default {filebeat} {ilm-init} policy, you will see a notice that the
```

template already has a policy associated with it. Confirm that you want to
overwrite that configuration.

TIP: When you change the policy associated with the index template, the active
index will continue to use the policy it was associated with at index creation
unless you manually update it. The next new index will use the updated policy.

> For more reasons that your ILM policy changes might be delayed, see https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/update-lifecycle-policy.html#update-lifecycle-policy[Update Lifecycle Policy].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more reasons that your {ilm-init} policy changes might be delayed, see {ref}/update-lifecycle-policy.html#update-lifecycle-policy[Update Lifecycle Policy].
```

[role="xpack"]

[[example-using-index-lifecycle-policy]]

> === Tutorial:  Use {ilm-init} to manage {filebeat} time-based indices

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== Tutorial: Use {ilm-init} to manage {filebeat} time-based indices
```

> With {ilm} ({ilm-init}), you can create policies perform actions automatically 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With {ilm} ({ilm-init}), you can create policies that perform actions automatically 
```

> against indices as they age and grow. {ilm-init} policies help you to manage

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
on indices as they age and grow. {ilm-init} policies help you to manage
```

> performance, resilience, and retention of your data during its lifecycle. This tutorial will show

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
performance, resilience, and retention of your data during its lifecycle. This tutorial shows
```

you how to use {kib}’s *Index Lifecycle Policies* to modify and create {ilm-init}
policies. You can learn more about all of the actions, benefits, and lifecycle

> phases in the {ref}/overview-index-lifecycle-management.html[{ilm} overview].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
phases in the {ref}/overview-index-lifecycle-management.html[{ilm-init} overview].
```

==== Prerequisites

To complete this tutorial, you'll need:

* An {es} cluster with hot and warm nodes configured for shard allocation
awareness. If you’re using {cloud}/ec-getting-started-templates-hot-warm.html[{ess}],
choose the hot-warm architecture deployment template.

+
For a self-managed cluster, add node attributes as described for {ref}/shard-allocation-filtering.html[shard allocation filtering]
to label data nodes as hot or warm. This step is required to migrate shards between
nodes configured with specific hardware for the hot or warm phases.
+
For example, you can set this in your `elasticsearch.yml` for each data node:
+
[source,yaml]
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
node.attr.data: "warm"
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* A server with {filebeat} installed and configured to send logs to the `elasticsearch`
output as described in {filebeat-ref}/filebeat-getting-started.html[Getting Started with {filebeat}].

[discrete]
[[example-using-index-lifecycle-policy-view-fb-ilm-policy]]
==== View the {filebeat} {ilm-init} policy

> {filebeat} includes a default {ilm-init} policy that enables rollover. {ilm-cap}

Reviewer 2: Not sure why we spell out ILM here.
```suggestion
{filebeat} includes a default {ilm-init} policy that enables rollover. {ilm-init}
```

Create Policy*.

. Activate the warm phase and configure it as follows:
+
|===
|*Setting* |*Value*

|Timing for warm phase
|30 days from index creation

|Node attribute
|`data:warm`

|Number of replicas
|1

|Force merge data
|enable

|Number of segments
|1
|===

+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/tutorial-ilm-custom-policy.png["Modify the custom policy to add a warm phase"]

+
. Activate the delete phase and set the timing.
+
|===
|*Setting* |*Value*
|Timing for delete phase
|90
|===

+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/tutorial-ilm-delete-phase-creation.png["Delete phase"]

. Configure the index to use the new policy in *{kib} > Management > Index Lifecycle
Policies*

.. Find your {ilm-init} policy.
.. Click the *Actions* link next to your policy name.
.. Choose *Add policy to index template*.
.. Select your {filebeat} index template name from the *Index template* list. For example, `filebeat-7.5.x`.
.. Click *Add Policy* to save the changes.

+
NOTE: If you initially used the default {filebeat} {ilm-init} policy, you will
see a notice that the template already has a policy associated with it. Confirm
that you want to overwrite that configuration.

> 

Reviewer 2: The `NOTE` admonition above is inline with the previous numbered item. The `TIP` admonition is not.

It's fine either way. Just wanted to point that out.

If you'd like both to be inline, just add a `+` to line 172.
